first draft (#2434)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: Document/0x08a-Testing-Tools.md

# Testing Tools

> Many different tools are available to perform the tests from the different test-cases. These tools allow you to perform static analysis, dynamic analysis, dynamic instrumentation, etc. The goal of these tools is to help you perform your own assessments, and not to obtain a conclusive result on the security status of an application. The output of these tools should be carefully studied, as they can (and will) contain both false positives and false negatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many tools are available to execute the different test cases, allowing you to perform static analysis, dynamic analysis, dynamic instrumentation, etc. Their goal is to help you perform your own assessments, and not to obtain a conclusive result on the security status of an application. The tool's output should be carefully studied, as they can (and will) contain both false positives and false negatives.
```

> The goal of the MASTG is to be as accessible as possible. For this reason, all the tools on this page comply with the following criterea:
> 
> * The tool is open-source
> * The tool is free to use
> * The tool can be used to analyze recent Android / iOS applications
> 
> Some closed-source tools will still be listed if there is no open-source alternative. However, even those tools will be free to use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of the MASTG is to be as accessible as possible. For this reason, we prioritize including tools that meet the following criteria:

- The tool is open-source.
- The tool is free to use.
- The tool can be used to analyze recent Android/iOS applications.

In some instances where no suitable open-source alternative exists, we may include closed-source tools. However, any closed-source tools included must be free to use, as we aim to avoid featuring paid tools whenever possible. 
```

> > Disclaimer: At the time of writing, we ensure that the tools being used in the MASTG examples are properly working. However, the tools might be broken or not work properly depending on your OS version of both your host computer and your test device. The functioning of the tooling can be further impeded by whether you're using a rooted/jailbroken device, the specific version of the rooting/jailbreak method and/or the version of the tool. The MASTG does not take any responsibility over the working status of the tools. If you find a broken tool or example, please search or file an issue in the tool's original page, e.g. in the GitHub issues page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Disclaimer: Each tool included in the MASTG examples was verified to be functional at the time it was added. However, the tools may not work properly depending on the OS version of both your host computer and your test device. The functionality of the tools can also be affected by whether you're using a rooted or jailbroken device, the specific version of the rooting or jailbreaking method, and/or the tool version itself. The OWASP MASTG does not assume any responsibility for the operational status of these tools. If you encounter a broken tool or example, we recommend searching online for a solution or contacting the tool's provider directly. If the tool has a GitHub page, you may also open an issue there.
```

> ## Commercial Tools
> 
> As explained above, the MASTG project does not list commercial tools, nor freeware versions from commercial vendors if an open-source alternative is available.
> 
> If you are looking for commercial tooling in the Mobile Application Security Space a potential resource is Gartner:
> 
> - [Mobile Application Security Testing Market](https://www.gartner.com/reviews/market/mobile-application-security-testing)
> - [Products In In-App Protection Market](https://www.gartner.com/reviews/market/in-app-protection)
> 
> > Disclaimer: Performing a fully automated scan of an application is a good start, but will not ensure that your application is secure. The results are heavily impacted by the type of application, the implemented business logic, the used framework (Flutter, React Native, Xamarin, ...) and the target OS. We recommend analyzing different tools for your specific application to see which tool gives the most thorough results.

Reviewer: we can skip this for now and include it in the MASTG chapter for MAS testing: https://mas.owasp.org/MASTG/General/0x04b-Mobile-App-Security-Testing/.

```suggestion
```
